---
layout: post
title:  "Why is job hunting so humiliating?"
date:   2025-10-08 08:00:00
description: ""
categories: career
---

To be reductive, I'm a fullstack developer. Not a 'fullstack developer' that is actually just backend but touched css once, I'm a fullstack developer that cares about the quality of my apis as much as the quality of my pixels as much as the quality of my deployment. I bring a product from conception to reality while maintaining high standards of futureproof engineering. I weigh tradeoffs of the needs of today vs the wants of tomorrow. I build these products directly with the CEO, Product, Designer, Engineers, QA, Customer and keep myself and everyone else aligned and on track with the mission. I keep up to date with the latest tools, frameworks, security issues, and tech discourse. Its been a month of applying and according to the current market I don't have the qualifications to even have a phone call with a recruiting manager. 

I'm a little bit lost. At this point I think I'd rather be ghosted than being told I'm not quite what they're looking for. If not me, then who? It's not like I'm applying to roles that aren't up my alley, they're exactly within my wheelhouse. It's also not like I'm clicking on auto apply roles on Linkedin, I know those go right to the trash bin. I'm also not just applying to top companies either, I already know those have serious competition and they seem to be very stingy with their positions as well. I'm applying to startups and local engineering orgs that need people to build. The fact that they won't even give me the time to have a conversation tells me that they're also probably inundated with applicants.

Even though I heard that the engineering job market is tough out there, I definitely underestimated how awful it is. I thought the people unable to find jobs were students who don't have the pedigree of professional work, or standard senior engineers which at this point I imagine are a dime a dozen. I always had pride and held myself higher than others as a fullstack generalist. I felt that I could do anything and wasn't constrained to a domain and could build the whole product if needed. With that said, I hope I don't sound like a loser when I start listing off why I'm having a tough time despite being qualified.

It's getting to the point where I feel that I'm debasing myself to just get a single phone call. I feel that they design these questions on these applications as the first step in a humiliaton ritual. 'We at TriangleCorp really believe in value of Banking Empowerment. What does Banking Empowerment mean to you?". What the hell am I supposed to say here? What goon ever had a thought about the empowering nature of online banking before this point. I understand the question is here to filter applications but I have to shoot my shot and obviously be as pandering as possible, obviously Banking Empowerment is a more noble cause than world peace or solving hunger. "What would be your first A/B test for EdCorp if hired". After giving a thoughtful response, I at least got the courtesy of receiving a templated rejection email. "Here at WhimsyCorp, how would you fulfil our values". I read through their entire company values all of which I strongly agree with, write a thoughtful response, receive another templated rejection response. Very cool, very fun. 

I do feel that to some extent AI has took my job. I think companies are currently discovering how long they can last by using AI and see what the limitations of it are. I'm certain engineering orgs are given less budget overall and are being encouraged (forced) to use whatever budget they have left to AI tools and the occassional AI hackathon. The next issue is the economy. Companies and investors are tightening budgets and are investing only in the AI space. Investment in AI companies have been one if not the only sector propping up the US economy, and most of this money circling around is just between the largest tech companies, the largest AI companies, and the largest hardware companies. The rest of the US economy is picking up the scraps by integrating AI in whatever obtuse way they can into their existing application for better or worse and farcicaly suggesting to investors that they are AI first companies as well. I can only hope by putting on the mask myself, I too can secure my own survival in these strange times.

Remote work has also taken a beating as well. Most of the tier 1 engineering companies have at this point announced hybrid office hours if not five days a week on-site. There are still a handful of tier 2 engineering companies that do have remote roles. I suspect that the bar for remote work has been raised incredibly. Now instead of fighting to be better than the engineers in your local region, you now need to be the best in the world (and cheaper too). Why hire an excellent engineer at US rates, when you can hire an excellent engineer for LatAm rates. 

Tier 1 companies also heaviliy abused the H1-B system to hire workers for cheaper rates as well as trap skilled workers in a system of modern indentured servitude. In the eyes of an org, H1-B workers are the clear preferred choice to hire so long as the org can continue to abuse the system. In a recent break with his tech entourage, Trump introduced the 100k price tag to hiring an H1-B worker. This is a very strange move by the president as I'm sure he didn't do it for people like me and I don't think this is the right solution to solving the abuse of the H1-B system for both the immigrant and the citizen, but this will directly impact hiring citizens like me for the better. It is hard to say by how much so I'm not holding my breath for this. 

My job history is not the most marketable. It's hard for a recruiter to see from a resume whether work at a startup is comparable to work at a tier 1 tech company. I'm certain there's a lot of laid off engineers from tier 1 tech orgs that I'm also competing with. This is the thing that's closest to my control, but its also just where my life took me instead of something I can carefully craft.

Things look bleak, but I'm not completely out of hope. Right now I'm looking at Amazon, Uber, and Grubhub. I hear you can pick your own hours.